I was born in Boston, I spent two
months there because of my parents’
working circumstances and eventually
I ended up in Valencia.
I studied there at the institute,
the university and from
the university, in parallel I had
an agreement with my parents that
is while drawn good grades can
do a little what I wanted, out
of that.
I did a lot of things during
the ONES and in parallel.
I studied industrial engineering,
organized and then
competed in business
plans, etc.
Even having a dance music
show on Saturday night
on the radio, things like
that.
I went to Germany in the summer,
I thought I was going to work in a
factory and ended up mounting
Latin parties, things like that
very random.
I started doing internships in the last
year at an industrial company and
then when I finished my career I
started working at BCG as a
strategic consultant.
Two years in Madrid and one in London
and from there I went to MIT.
I made a program called Leaders
for Global Operations, which is a
program that originated in the
1980s as almost competition, as
a reaction to Japanese competition
by some industrial partners
who assembled it jointly
with MIT.
And then you pay part of the tuition
and you do two masters, an MBA
and a master in operations direction.
I thought I would go back
to work in a company.
And then I started to get a little bit
of the worm of entrepreneurship and so
I started to turn around things that
would have frustrated me.
And that’s a bit like Pierre Trans
was born, which was my
first adventure, when
I was a little reflecting on my
personal experience of paying
tuition to MIT.
Then I was scholarshiped by a foundation,
Caja Madrid, and that made
the payment.
Then the university had difficulty
squaring that payment with which
it was for me.
And then I went up, I went
down, trying to
fix this.
And then you realize that the
bank has put you in some craving
on the exchange rate, on
commissions and so on.
I said that the world is unfair.
In a way, those who know less
and who can afford less to
cover them with many commissions
and so on are the ones who
end up paying the party,
small, consumers
and so on.
How much is it to illustrate it?
What was the amount of commission
you would pay?
Not in percentage, but in percentage.
A thousand euros.
In a $40,000 payment, you
end up paying $1,000 in that
case, approximately.
So it’s a 5%, with which you say,
oysters, I didn’t know and I just
lost a thousand dollars.
The exchange rate you get from the
bank is very different from what
is on the market.
And it’s a reference that when one
thinks of value proposal, cost
savings, it’s very easy when
everyone knows how much you cost
a coffee, more or less.
If someone buys you, they charge you 10
times more.
And if I’m used to paying a euro and
a half for a coffee and someone
charges me 15 euros, I’m saying,
“Hey, uncle, you’re stealing
me, right?
But the type of change and
with many things they quote, are
constantly changing.
So I would tell you, hear, is 1.45
a good type of 1 dollar exchange or
not?
Oysters, I don’t know, you’ll have to look
at it, right?
It is not something immediate.
So, there, that is an advantage
to not create transparency in
the market, for consumers.
And then I said, hear, then
why not create the alternative
to bank transfer?
Why not a little do something that
isn’t necessarily the bank
doing that currency conversion?
So a little bit of peer transfer was born.
And originally, even the name Peer
Transfer, I saw it as a peer-to-peer
network that is, basically,
I come from Spain to the United
States, I am sending money, other
people are sending money from
the United States to Spain, because
we do not clean and cross those
transactions and directly
prevent money from moving internationally
and moving domestically.
So that was a bit of what I started
with.
And I said, oysters, what innovative, what
disruptive, what such, right?
This is a peer-to-peer network in this.
It was a C2C platform,
right?
Yes, it could be corporate too.
Because almost more a peer-to-peer
where there are different participants
who eventually clean up transactions.
And then a little, that’s how I
made the first experience, and at
one point I said, oysters, it makes
sense, right?
At the end you have the debate
of, we are in a world that we are
always a little there with the ear
raised to see if someone loves
it, right?
When you see an ad that says, it doesn’
t know which is cheaper, the best, right?
See if this is true or not?
So sometimes when you run one of
the you are explained why it’
s cheaper or why it’s better at
least allows a understanding
to the other side, right?
Say, well, hear, because I don’t know,
you don’t have a building, so you
save money on having a building
and therefore you give me something
cheaper.
Okay, I understand it, right?
But there’s a bit of the
complexity between, if I explain
how I’m adding complexity to
your understanding of the business
and if I don’t explain it to you,
it might generate you
distrust, right?
Then I have a little there the
dilemma because at one point I
realized that this cleaning was very
good but as soon as you start to have
scale and you start to get
very good exchange rates and
in the end it is not relevant, better
margin, but it is not fundamental
to build a business.
I have decided to simplify
this.
Say, hear, look, we can give you a
much cheaper exchange rate because we
don’t have offices and yes, it’ll
get in a lot, right?
It is an online business, with
more modern technologies, etc.
And then I started helping
small and consumers.
This was a bit of everything that happened
in the last year of the MBA.
I started helping
small.
And then talking to the universities,
almost, hear, look, please,
could you like to tell some of
these students that they use us
and so on?
One thing is very important
to me, and that is the...
sometimes the flexibility to adapt
your business mode according to what
you learn at the same time as tenacity.